---
layout: post
permalink: /the-project/w01/
title: Week 01
---

This week was all about reading code and deciding what to implement.

## Details about the project

### What has to be done?

We can differentiate three different parts in the libmicrohttpd-HTTP2 project:

  * Because MHD implements only the HTTP/1 protocol, there is no setting
    (MHD_FLAG or MHD_OPTION) to indicate the supported HTTP versions by the web server.

    We can inspire us from
    [Libcurl](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/), which implements this as the option
    [CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION.html),
    with values, e.g., CURL_HTTP_VERSION_1_1, CURL_HTTP_VERSION_2_0, etc.

  * The code to handle the connection and parse the HTTP request
    in *src/microhttpd/connection.c* is tightly coupled.

    MHD was designed (and coded) with the HTTP state machine and parser mixed
    with the socket read/write operations.
    We need to separate these two parts (the connection handler
    and the HTTP request parser) so it's easy to switch between protocols.

    Since HTTP/2 is binary (instead of textual) and
    provides multiplexing (instead of ordered and blocking requests),
    the implementation code will be very different from the one for HTTP/1.

  * The [nghttp2](https://github.com/nghttp2/nghttp2) library works with
    byte strings (input and output), leaving outside its scope the handling
    of I/O operations.

    Consequently, we need a *connection_http2.c* file that will manage the
    HTTP2 connections, reading the data and passing it to nghttp2.


### How does a client connects to the server?

A client has several ways to connect to an HTTP2 web server:

  1. Send an upgrade request using HTTP/1.1 over a clear text connection.
  2. Negotiate HTTP2 over a TLS connection.
  3. Simply issue HTTP2 requests over a clear text connection,
    having prior knowledge that the server supports HTTP/2.

The two last options talk directly HTTP/2 when sending data to the server.
As a first step, we can start by implementing the *connection_http2.c* functionality.

The first option needs to switch from an HTTP/1 connection to an HTTP/2.
MHD implements the upgrade request by giving the socket to the "MHD application"
to use it directly for bi-directional communication with the client.
Consequently, the socket is not responsability of MHD any more.
Allowing this option (upgrade from HTTP/1 to HTTP/2) will introduce several changes
in MHD, so I will postpone this feature until the code for HTTP/2-only connections
is stable.

### Testing

For end-to-end functionality, we can reuse the tests developed by MHD
(see in *src/examples/* and *src/testcurl/*).
For benchmarking, we will use the tool [h2load](https://nghttp2.org/documentation/h2load.1.html).
