---
layout: post
permalink: /the-project/w03/
title: Week 03
---

This week was all about <span class="Emoji Emoji--forLinks" style="background-image:url('/img/sparkles.png')" title="Sparkles" aria-label="Emoji: Sparkles">&nbsp;</span>coding<span class="Emoji Emoji--forLinks" style="background-image:url('/img/sparkles.png')" title="Sparkles" aria-label="Emoji: Sparkles">&nbsp;</span>!

What I learned this week:

  - [autoconf](https://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/manual/autoconf.html) and how the configure script is generated.
  - [pkg-config](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/pkg-config/): get
    the correct compiler options (instead of hard-coding values)
  - [LD_LIBRARY_PATH](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Program-Library-HOWTO/shared-libraries.html#AEN80):
    if your library is not in a default/standard library directory (such as /usr/lib),
    add its path to this variable (directories separated by colon: VAR=/path1:/path2)

## First prototype

I have a very first prototype of the new library.
I wrote the *skeleton* code needed to handle HTTP/2 connections:

  * Add the **--enable-http2** and **--with-nghttp2** options to script *configure*
    - MHD uses autoconf to generate the configure script (from the template configure.ac).
    - Used the `--enable-https` and `--with-gnutls` options as a code example.
    - Used code from curl and apache to check if libnghttp2 is installed.
    - Added `NGHTTP2_CPPFLAGS` and `NGHTTP2_LDFLAGS` for compiling.
    - <span class="note-08">Still not sure about the minimum version for nghttp2</span>
    - Preprocessor variable `HTTP2_SUPPORT` is defined when running configure:

      ~~~~~~~~~~~~
      ./configure --enable-http2 --with-nghttp2    
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~

  * Add **MHD_USE_HTTP2** to enum MHD_FLAG:
    - The server accepts only HTTP2 connections (for now).
    - Support for upgrade from HTTP/1 will be added in the future.

  * Connection read, idle and write callbacks:
    - Added function pointers to *struct MHD_Connection*:
      - ConnectionReadCallback read_cls
      - ConnectionIdleCallback idle_cls
      - ConnectionWriteCallback write_cls
    - Created functions to set the function pointers for HTTP1 and HTTP2:
      - MHD_set_connection_http1_callbacks_
      - MHD_set_connection_http2_callbacks_
