---
layout: post
categories: []
title: Week 06
---

This week was all about re-reading code, re-designing structures and re-writing code...

- The first prototype was OK to test the nghttp2 library.

- But each stream needs independent buffers for reading and writing (it was all
  handled by a unique read/write_buffer in MHD_Connection).
  Both reading and writing frames are events handled by the event loop.
  They need to be registered in order to be "executed".  

  The state machines in MHD:

    1. HTTP states:
      - HTTP1 connections have request and response states (`enum MHD_CONNECTION_STATE`)
      - We added MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_... states for HTTP2 connections.
        - *MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_INIT*: initial state of the connection. Prefaces had not been received or sent.
        - *MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_OPEN*: open connection, client and server prefaces have been exchanged.
        - *MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_CLOSED_REMOTE*, *MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_CLOSED_LOCAL*: client or server, respectively, sent a GOAWAY frame.
           Connection is half-closed.
        - *MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_CLOSED*: connection is closed.
        - *MHD_CONNECTION_HTTP2_IN_CLEANUP*: connection is finished, needs to be freed.

    2. Event loop states:
      - *MHD_EVENT_LOOP_INFO_WRITE*: fired when sending the server preface and after reading client frames (e.g. Settings, Header).
      - *MHD_EVENT_LOOP_INFO_READ*: normal (idle) state.

  `MHD_connection_update_event_loop_info (struct MHD_Connection *connection)`
  function updates the event loop state in HTTP/1.
  For HTTP/2, this is done directly after reading frames (next state is WRITE)
  and after writing frames (next state is READ).

- I will postpone the separation between the HTTP connection and the protocol version used by it.
  Right now, the http2 functions for the connection states `read`, `write`, and `idle`
  (not sure what can be done here...) are called and the HTTP1 code was left
  in the `MHD_connection_handle_xxxx` functions.
  It's not the most elegant solution, but this way, the file `connection.c` has
  only a few modifications.

- What is changing?

    * Information hiding: what is visible? what is private?
      * Visible:
        * MHD_http2_session_start
        * MHD_http2_session_delete
        * MHD_http2_handle_read
        * MHD_http2_handle_write
        * MHD_http2_handle_idle
      * Private:
        * All interaction with nghttp2 library.
          The client application only sees the incoming requests (unaware of the
          protocol used) and responds to them.

    * Resource management:
      - Memory: both for reading and writing frames
      - Shared information, sockets: stored in MHD_Connection.

What I learned this week, equivalent system calls:

  - `read(fd, buf, len) ` == `recv(fd, buf, len, 0)`
  - `write(fd, buf, len)` == `send(fd, buf, len, 0)`
